README.md, before:

# VecKog
The vectorized (AVX-512) batched singular value decomposition algorithm for matrices of order two.

This software is a supplementary material for the paper
arXiv:[2005.07403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.07403 "Batched computation of the singular value decompositions of order two by the AVX-512 vectorization") \[cs.MS\].

## Building

### Prerequisites

A recent Intel C compiler on a 64-bit Linux (e.g., CentOS 7.8) is required; macOS (e.g., Catalina) should also be supported (not tested).
The Intel MKL (Math Kernel Library) is recommended, but another LAPACK library could work with some tweaking.

### Make options

Run ``make`` in the ``src`` subdirectory as follows:
```bash
make [COMPILER=x200|x64] [NDEBUG=0|1|2|3|4|5] [TEST=0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7] [all|clean|help]
```
where ``COMPILER`` should be set to ``x64`` for Xeons (default), or to ``x200`` for Xeon Phi KNLs, respectively.
Here, ``NDEBUG`` should be set to the desired optimization level (``3`` is a sensible choice).
If unset, the predefined debug-mode build options will be used.

For testing, ``TEST=0`` builds the vectorized code, and ``TEST=4`` builds the pointwise code.
Adding two to ``TEST`` enables the optional backscaling, while adding one enables the step-by-step printouts.
For example, ``make COMPILER=x200 NDEBUG=3 clean all`` will trigger a full, release-mode rebuild for the KNLs of the vectorized code only (equivalent to ``TEST=0``).

## Running

### The test data generator

To write ``N`` finite pseudorandom doubles into ``FileName`` file, run:
```bash
./src/rndgen.exe N FileName
```

### A single-vector algorithm test

To test the real (or the complex, in the second line) algorithm ``T``, where ``T=TEST``, on ``N`` vectors from ``FileName``, run:
```bash
./src/d8svd2tT.exe N FileName
./src/z8svd2tT.exe N FileName
```

### The multi-batch test

To test the real (or the complex, in the second line) algorithm ``T``, where ``T=TEST``, on ``#batches`` batches, each with ``n`` matrices read from ``infile``, run:
```bash
./src/dbatchT.exe n #batches infile
./src/zbatchT.exe n #batches infile
```
For now, ``n`` has to be a power of two (not a constraint on the algorithm itself, but only on the error testing procedure).

This work has been supported in part by Croatian Science Foundation under the project IP-2014-09-3670 ([MFBDA](https://web.math.pmf.unizg.hr/mfbda/)).

Commit message:

Add the optional MSR tracking.

README.md, after:

# VecKog
The vectorized (AVX-512) batched singular value decomposition algorithm for matrices of order two.

This software is a supplementary material for the paper
arXiv:[2005.07403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.07403 "Batched computation of the singular value decompositions of order two by the AVX-512 vectorization") \[cs.MS\].

## Building

### Prerequisites

A recent Intel C compiler on a 64-bit Linux (e.g., CentOS 7.8) is required; macOS (e.g., Catalina) should also be supported (not tested).
The Intel MKL (Math Kernel Library) is recommended, but another LAPACK library could work with some tweaking.

### Make options

Run ``make`` in the ``src`` subdirectory as follows:
```bash
make [COMPILER=x200|x64] [NDEBUG=0|1|2|3|4|5] [TEST=0..15] [all|clean|help]
```
where ``COMPILER`` should be set to ``x64`` for Xeons (default), or to ``x200`` for Xeon Phi KNLs, respectively.
Here, ``NDEBUG`` should be set to the desired optimization level (``3`` is a sensible choice).
If unset, the predefined debug-mode build options will be used.

For testing, ``TEST=0`` builds the vectorized code, and ``TEST=4`` builds the pointwise code.
Adding two to ``TEST`` enables the optional backscaling, while adding one enables the step-by-step printouts.
Adding eight to ``TEST`` turns on tracking of ``IA32_MPERF`` and ``IA32_APERF`` MSRs (requires running the executables as `root`).
For example, ``make COMPILER=x200 NDEBUG=3 clean all`` will trigger a full, release-mode rebuild for the KNLs of the vectorized code only (equivalent to ``TEST=0``).

## Running

### The test data generator

To write ``N`` finite pseudorandom doubles into ``FileName`` file, run:
```bash
./src/rndgen.exe N FileName
```

### A single-vector algorithm test

To test the real (or the complex, in the second line) algorithm ``T``, where ``T=TEST``, on ``N`` vectors from ``FileName``, run:
```bash
./src/d8svd2tT.exe N FileName
./src/z8svd2tT.exe N FileName
```

### The multi-batch test

To test the real (or the complex, in the second line) algorithm ``T``, where ``T=TEST``, on ``#batches`` batches, each with ``n`` matrices read from ``infile``, run:
```bash
./src/dbatchT.exe n #batches infile
./src/zbatchT.exe n #batches infile
```
For now, ``n`` has to be a power of two (not a constraint on the algorithm itself, but only on the error testing procedure).

This work has been supported in part by Croatian Science Foundation under the project IP-2014-09-3670 ([MFBDA](https://web.math.pmf.unizg.hr/mfbda/)).
